Just read, Ellie.
I see.
So Auntie Jane met me at Vashi at the hospital.
And she showed me a white sari with some print on it.
And it wasn't a very special sari, but she loved it so much.
And she said they all got saris when they all
came to India at the time.
And because she was so tall, the sari
was actually quite short for her.
So she asked me to help her to extend the sari.
So I actually got a fall attached on top of it
so that she could wear that sari because it
was just too short for her.
And the interesting thing, so I started talking to her.
And I said, apparently she had been a carpenter before that.
She was working with wood.
And so I said, what was it like?
What did Srimathji say to you when she found out
that you work with wood?
And she told her not to wear pants,
but to wear a skirt when she was working.
So I said, and did you?
And she said, yes, I did.
And I said, well, how did that work when
you were carpentering around?
And she actually showed me how she very demurely bent her legs
and laid a plank of wood across her lap and sawed wood.
She said it did make a difference.
So I found it really very touching.
And it was so obvious her delight and reverence
for that sari, which actually would look very ordinary.
And yeah, the idea of keeping it and preserving it
and making it long enough for her.
And I felt kind of honored that she gave me this little job.
Yeah, it was nice.
It was beautiful.
I think I just have to, for the UK,
I just have to specify that pants, of course,
is the American for trousers.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yes, I'm also tall.
And I had to find out from the years
that you couldn't just go and buy a sari.
You had to make sure it was long enough.
And I think it's six meters, isn't it?
Are there other two lengths?
Or maybe more than two lengths.
But six meters, I think, is what I need to get the folds.
The pleats.
Yeah.
But and also the width.
You must need a wider one.
Yes, I meant the width in this case.
Yes.
The fall is at the bottom of the sari
to prevent it from getting really worn and torn
as you walk against it.
But if you're extremely tall, you
need to extend the width so that you have something to tuck in.
Yeah.
So yeah, I got, so I actually attached a fall on top.
I got it attached by a tailor.
Oh, at the top.
Oh, how clever.
Yes.
Of course, yes.
How clever.
Yes.
Good idea.
That was nice.
Marilyn, I would like to say a small story.
Yes, please do.
When Simasangi came to Barcelona,
she brought some saris for us, for Spanish people.
I was fairly new because I entered in 1992.
But I settled more in 1993.
And when she came to Barcelona, we flew from Madrid to there.
And we were in a residence.
And when Simasangi arrived, she brought
a big box full of saris.
And they announced on the speaker,
we were eating at the moment in the restaurant.
And they announced, oh, Simasangi
brought some saris for you so those that want some,
they can come up.
And I jump up my chair.
And I said, oh, I'm going, I'm going.
I want to be the first to get one because I
didn't have any saris.
And I jump.
And then another man who was from Malaga in front of me,
he said, oh, no, keep on eating.
Don't rush.
Because if the saris for you will be for you,
you just have faith, have faith.
And I sat down again.
And I was eating.
And I said, yes, oh, Simasangi is the goddess.
So the sari will be for me.
So when I finished, I went up.
And the saris had run out.
Everybody has got their saris.
And when I arrived there, I looked at the man who says,
your sari will be there waiting for you, you know.
And I said, oh, gosh, I don't have any sari.
And I wanted so much.
And I was told to have faith and wait.
And I was patient.
And now look what I got.
And then one of the ladies, the Spanish lady,
says this, have this one.
Because I already got one.
So you can have this one.
And she gave it to me.
And I wear that sari many times.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's beautiful.
For me, it was a tremendous lesson.
Then also, once I went for her birthday,
I don't remember the year.
And I bought a special sari.
And I went with some people that didn't understand
about the silk.
And you know that they said, oh, silk, the seller, this silk
is silk.
And the person who was with me says, I know about patterns.
Because I design.
And it's very beautiful design.
But I don't know much about it is silk, pure silk, or not.
In fact, I put it for the birthday.
And it turned out not to be pure silk.
It was a mixture with polyester or something like that.
It's pretty beautiful.
But I was really, really disappointed.
Afterwards, I was a little bit ill.
And they were going to a factory where
they sell saris with the old patterns, the mothers.
And I said, I want a blue one with silver pattern.
So I gave them the money to bring it to me.
And when they arrived, the sari was, how do you call it, violet.
Not violet, morado.
Oh, gosh.
Not purple.
Purple, that's right.
It was purple.
And this is, whenever I got my purple sari,
yes, I always said, oh, this is my blue sari.
But there you are.
It's nice to have a purple sari with silver flavoring.
So as long as I have a very beautiful, expensive, proper
sari.
But I have to add more things because I'm very tall and fat.
So in it, add in cloth so that it will fit me.
Does anyone else have any stories
that they want to share while we're still recording the story?
Got a couple of things that have sprung to mind,
but I don't know how long, how much time we have left.
Oh, plenty.
Thank you so much, Gauri and Roz.
I really enjoyed the stories.
And they're both very different.
And Roz, when you mentioned about these Punjabi
that you bought, I'm sure it was very beautiful.
But it just sprung to mind that I
think once I was wearing a Punjabi in front of Mother.
And Mother said something like, yes, yes, very nice.
But all the vibrations will fall off it straight away.
When we wear a sari and we're in the strong vibrations
of a puja, because a sari is the Kundalini.
Of course, it goes around, represents the Kundalini.
So in a puja, it holds the vibration
that it keeps them for a very long time.
But she said, you wear a Punjabi,
it just all falls off straight away.
But we got someone to tell me that.
Don't really do it.
It's the lady who brought me to Sahaj.
She did tell me that.
I've always remembered that, that in puja,
the pleats of the sari hold all the beautiful vibrations.
So that was that sprung to mind.
Wow.
I didn't know that.
That's so important to know.
And in a way, I was quite young once I was wearing a Punjabi.
I didn't have the dupatta, the modesty.
She was very insistent to wear the dupatta to cover.
So it's just all this very motherly attention to detail.
So many memories about, oh, gosh,
comical things as well, like Manda Keeney mentioned
about the very tall yogini and the sari,
which wasn't very wide enough.
And I don't remember where we were,
but she's actually been getting ready for puja
in her own hotel room.
And of course, she could get ready, boom, boom, boom.
I mean, I'm sure people have seen her put a sari
on in two seconds flat, on, perfect, never falls off.
But she did so, it helps.
And I said, even without a full length mirror,
I said something like, even without a full length mirror,
because I don't know about you guys,
but some of you need to see if it's off the showing ankle.
It doesn't look very elegant.
And I'd said something like, oh, it helps sometimes
with a full length mirror.
And she sort of smiled.
And then we were somewhere,
and she was in the car and she looked,
we were looking out the window,
and there's a yogini showing about this much ankle.
And she might have looked at me, she goes,
I don't think she has a full length mirror.
It was just this sort of, you know,
this sort of humor that she would come out with.
Very, very funny.
So many funny stories.
Carole, are you recording this?
Yes, yes, we're still recording.
No, I don't want to kind of, you know,
it's just so many, so many things.
Whenever she was getting ready for puja
and always paying particular attention
to the color of the sari, the pattern,
particularly one puja, there was one,
I believe it was the Sahasrara puja in Vienna,
that very strong puja that Gauri will remember, no doubt.
And she was wearing a puja sari.
She chose it specifically, which had the squares,
you know, golden squares.
Oh yes, Saraswale, yeah.
Yeah, you remember that one then she said,
this represents the mariadis of Sri Ganesha.
Yeah.
In these squares.
I think I remember that.
I actually remember her saying that.
I don't know if she mentioned it in the puja,
so I remember her choosing it and mentioning it,
but she made me mention it.
Yeah, I remember hearing that though.
Yeah, because you were there, yeah.
Definitely.
So always great attention to detail.
There was no such thing as a casual choice,
how she would choose colors and designs,
obviously for a very deep reason.
And the gifts that she would give
always have a meaning, of course.
I mean, one of the first saris,
I remember I'd gone to her home
and I was wearing maybe a little bit shy
because I bought this jacket in Camden Lock Market,
you know, it was sort of trendy those days.
You went down to Camden Lock
and you could buy a genuine Chanel jacket
for 50p or something.
And I was wearing this sort of secondhand thing
and I was very embarrassed because I thought,
oh, it's secondhand, I shouldn't wear it.
In front of mother.
So I went in with the jacket and then took it off.
And later she came from her room
and she brought me a sari in exact color of that jacket.
And she said, oh, that pink really suits you.
You know, so it was so sweet
how you think she doesn't see anything,
but you know, she sort of saw out of the corner of her eye
and came with this pink color.
And years and years later in Ganapati Pule on the,
you know, when she bought the wedding saris
for the guys to choose for the brides.
So it was all, she chose them
and they would come and buy them.
So Enzo had bought one for me, you know,
he'd chosen a purple one, I think,
lovely sari, purple with zari.
And then he bought it with one of those watches of rupees
that, you know, Roz humorously described.
We're all going around with these watches of rupees,
weren't we?
And then he'd gone, taken the sari,
and then later on he saw Sri Mataji and she said,
oh, I don't know where I've chosen Danya's wedding sari.
And she fished out this pink one,
exact same color that day, you know,
when I was about, I don't know, 16 or something,
as she'd given me.
So he had to buy two, of course he couldn't say,
oh, I've already got one mother.
So he coughed up another watch of rupees.
So I got pink, pink that day, pink the color of love.
Anyway, I better stop there because there's so many.
I'm glad I'm not the only one then that was going around
and dealing with this huge amount of money in my bag.
Yeah, it's so funny.
And all those cotton ones, Glenda, Gauri, that we got.
Some of us, I have to admit, when we got our colors,
we weren't so gracious saying, oh, this is Nabi.
This, you know, I remember if you really hated,
shouldn't use the word hate, it's too strong.
But if you were, like, let's say,
I remember my mom wasn't fond of the color orange.
Yeah.
And of course the first sari mother gave her was orange.
An orange one, yes.
And she set up a new one.
First sari got to my husband was an orange one
and I had an aversion to orange as well.
And she said, orange is the color of detachment.
Yeah.
So that's sort of interesting.
Anyway, that feels like, you know, it's a sort of,
what is it, one pound to start, five to stop.
So it's interesting because telling even some
of those stories, there isn't loads of them
are not in the memories book I've just put.
So it's telling the stories that it brings it all up.
So it's lovely to-
Yes, you remember when somebody else says something,
you remember exactly how it was.
Absolutely.
All right.
Yeah.
Like that sari that Chumaraji described it.
I remember that.
I remember that now and that you mentioned it.
The sari she wore for Sarashade.
Yeah.
1985.
Caroline, there is one little story.
I don't know if I'm interrupting Dania.
I'm not interrupting you on my Dania.
I said, I'll stop there otherwise.
Okay.
We're getting India tour and unfortunately
I can't remember the girl's name,
but there was an Australian,
well, I was in my thirties.
I was in my middle thirties or early thirties
and she was probably about the same.
She married an Indian chap on that tour,
but she was a real character.
I really, I've never been able to remember that.
I've got photographs of myself with her
and we were given that pile of cotton saris
as you already mentioned.
I mean, there were, some of them were lovely.
I saved a pink one and another one for years
and years and years, because it was such nice.
They were so lovely and cool in India.
Anyway, we got these piles of saris
and they were all very similar, weren't they?
I mean, very many of us got the same ones,
but this girl, I think she may have come later to the tour
and she got her pile of saris and there was ducks on it.
There were little ducks on this sari
and we just went, oh, how sweet.
Trust you to get that, you know,
because she was such a personality, a strong character.
Did you say ducks, like quack quack?
Yeah, quack quack ducks, yeah.
Little ducks all over the sari,
like a line of them around her sari.
And we said, I said, if you bought,
you know, I think she said,
everybody asks the same question.
Did you go and buy that sari?
She said, no, no, it was in the pile that Sharataji gave me.
And I'm like, oh, that's Sharataji's little play,
you know, with you, because she was a real character.
She would never think before she spoke.
She just said things, we're all laughing,
but this sari really suited her personality, you know.
So I never saw another one like that, actually.
With ducks on.
Just, yeah, not a story in itself at all,
but that's just taken me back, Rosalind,
to getting my pile of saris on the India tour.
It's just amazing, it's amazing.
We were so lucky.
Yeah.
Also, she gave the towels,
these striped, blue and white striped towels,
which we still have one of them.
With the sewing machine,
I've sewn it together again and again and again.
And now it's just like a saving piece.
We used them for years and years.
She said, she gave them to us and she said,
these towels are such good quality, she said to us.
I mean, and bringing them back from India,
because Mother handed them to us, these towels.
Just amazing.
Yeah, Chris has only just stopped using his, I think.
I've just remembered a funny one about the towels,
if I may, it's sort of the first India tour I went on.
We were told, don't bring towels.
You only bring one dress,
because you're going to get saris, you're going to get.
So because we had to keep empty suitcases
for bringing things for Indian yogis and for Shri Mataji.
So, didn't bring the towel, only had one dress.
And the things that we were given were also random.
In my suitcase, amongst other things,
I had tins of Frankfurter sausages, custard.
And I thought, oh, this must be really like the specialty
for maybe the Indian yogis,
so they can't get, or maybe from Mother's family.
So I've been carting around these tins of Frankfurter
sausages and custard for quite a while, actually.
Quite a good while before.
And no towel manifested, I think for a good two weeks,
and the saris were delayed.
So I was using a petticoat as a hidden, you know.
Oh, it's so funny, Dania.
It's such a lesson in detachment.
You did what you were told,
but the best thing was that when we got to,
I think it was Pune or Nashik or somewhere,
I can't remember, but I thought,
finally, we were asked to deliver the goods.
So I delivered dutifully these tins of Frankfurters
and tins of custard.
You know what, we had to eat that night,
what we were served.
So, you know, it was obviously,
we were probably all moaning about spicy food or something.
And there you go, you can have those, you know.
They weren't for the family or for the Indians, you know.
They were served up.
I tell you, once we get talking about India Tours,
I would love to sit for about a week with all the yogis
and talk about the stories from India Tours.
When you look back now, at the time,
they all seemed quite serious when we were young yogis,
you know, in the beginning years.
But now we look back, they are hilarious, aren't they?
You know.
Just jokes.
You were always bringing Kraft cheese in cans
and things like that.
I remember the...
I'm told to bring polyester material for the Indians.
I loved it, because the Aussies used to bring baked beans,
biscuits, it was great.
You know, we were so frugal in England.
We were very austere and quite fanatic, I think.
And it was an absolute revelation for me
when I went on my first India Tour
and I met you and Cheryl and all these wonderful,
open-hearted, normal, joyful, funny people.
And then, you know, because I think you took pity on me,
because I was like a kid, you know,
so skinny 16-year-old and shared all the biscuits
and baked beans and it was great.
And then we had a lovely, lovely time.
Magic, wasn't it?
Absolute magic.
The greatest fun I had, was a great revelation for me,
was a whole bunch of Australians came
on one of those early Tours,
possibly the first or maybe second one I went on,
about 90, 91.
We had so much fun with the Australians.
I think the English and Australians do have a kind of rapport
somewhere along the line.
So, absolutely.
The things we got up to, honestly.
Great.
That was the year that Dania and I got married,
in fact, 1991.
Yes.
To our respective husbands, obviously.
That's right.
We got married on the same year, did you?
You two.
Yeah.
Wow.
That would be one of my stories, the marriage, 1984.
When I got married, 40 years this year.
Yeah, so brilliant.
So we'll be hearing that in February then, Gary.
Yes, marriage stories, yeah.
Okay, ladies.
Well, I think it's time to slowly draw this to a close.
It's been a wonderful evening as ever.
So I'm going to, for the second time,
I'm going to stop the recording now.